# Thesis
This repository contains all code that was used in my Master's thesis. At this point it was only run by myself on my local machine & Euler account. Therefore,
some file paths need some adaptation if one tries to run the code.

The main branch contains the code that was written before turning in the thesis and is deprecated and will be a nightmare to understand for collaborators. 
**The currently maintained branch is develop**.

The repository consists of four files:

### Generate Pre-Built NC

This repository builts a YAML file according to calliope specifications, reads it and saves the read model as .nc file.
The reason this step is separate from the optimization is that this step cannot be parallelized (to my knowlegde) and took a lot of computation time on only 
4 cores.
**Usage**: "python main.py arg1 arg2 arg3 arg4 arg5" 
where: 

* arg1 - number of modelling steps. This is usually six steps for timer intervals of five years
* arg2 - start date (e.g. 01-01)
* arg3 - end date (e.g. 12-31)
* arg4 - threads that can be used by Gurobi
* arg5 - year (e.g. 2016)
example: "python main.py 6 01-01 12-31 99 2016"


### Optimize Pre-Built NC
**Prerequisite**: have a .nc file of a calliope model, generated by "Generate Pre-Built NC".

Optimizes the model for a specific weather and demand year in (usually) 6 steps for the scenario with incentive payments and
1 step for the baseline scenario with no incentive payments.
**Usage**: "python main.py arg1 arg2 arg3 arg4 arg5"  (for details see section above)


### Simulate Operation
**Prerequisite**: have an optimized energy system obtained by "Optimize Pre-Built NC".
This is used for out-of-sample testing. At this point the Calliope mode is still set to "plan". This is likely to change soon.
**Usage**: "python main.py arg1 arg2 arg3 arg4 arg5"  (for details see section above)

### Evaluation
This repository contains python notebooks that were used to evaluate the model data. It is currently a mess, so I would not recommend to go through it.
Cleaning up this repo is on the TODO list. 
